# bullwhip-effect
To exemplify the bullwhip effect in a supply chain and how its behaviour changes with different lead times and the weight forecasts place on the most recent data. 
There is a supply chain consisting of a manufacturer who supplies to a distributor who supplies to a wholesaler who supplies to a retailer who supplies to consumers. There is a lead time of L + 1 at each step of the supply chain, consisting of 1 period to transmit the order information from the customer to the supplier, and L periods to send goods from the supplier to the customer. 
Each firm uses an exponential smoothing method to forecast its future demand based on the previous order placed by its immediate downstream member of the supply chain. All the firms are calculating their forecast, order data and inventory independently. This lack of communication between various members of the supply chain will lead to the Bullwhip effect which will be demonstrated by this activity.  
Three methods are used to detrmine the order quanitity of each firm.
1.) ES-1 is a very basic model which deals with the most recent data and does not consider the previous history of the orders and inventory level. It tries to forecast demand for the next period using the current period’s demand and determines order values considering the recent inventory position. 2.) ES-2 considers the historical data from starting point to the most recent period for determining the order value for the next period. It tries to maintain the service level of 99%. Hence, it is very sensitive to the variance in the order values. 3.) ES-3 is improvisation on ES-2 as it will consider cost and tries to balance the inventory holding cost and back-order cost and determines the base stock level which will result in the lowest total cost. 
